Blog dbt airflow (#208)
ippontech/blog-usa: posts/transform-data-in-your-warehouse-using-dbt-and-airflow.md

# DBT Model

The DBT model is pretty simple since the goal of this blog post is to show how DBT can run directly on Airflow (instead of an ECS task for example). All the DBT code will be stored directly in the S3 Bucket so the Airflow DAG can easily access it.

Here is the incremental DBT model that will simply add new rows based on the column `inserted_at`:

```sql
{{
    config(
        materialized='incremental'
    )
}}

SELECT * FROM public.quote

{% if is_incremental() %}
  WHERE inserted_at > (SELECT max(inserted_at) FROM {{ this }})
{% endif %}
```

The target schema for this model is `dbt`, for more details, you can take a look at the file `profiles.yml`. Few properties from the file `dbt_project.yml` were also changed because of read-only file system (`packages-install-path`, `log-path` and `target-path`).

# Deployment using AWS CDK

The whole stack can be deployed with [CDK](https://aws.amazon.com/cdk/) using the command `cdk deploy`, it will generate a CloudFormation template and execute it.

Stack's components:
- Clean VPC

> - S3 Bucket prefilled with Airflow DAG and DBT code

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- S3 bucket prefilled with Airflow DAG and dbt code
```

> - IAM Role with mandatory permissions

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- IAM role with mandatory permissions
```

- Redshift cluster
- Airflow

Feel free to clone my [GitHub repository](https://github.com/Falydoor/blog-dbt-airflow) that has the stack already configured.

> Once the whole stack is deployed and the Airflow instance running, the DAG can be turned on and it will start collecting data and transforming it.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Once the whole stack is deployed and the Airflow instance is running, the DAG can be turned on and will start collecting data and transforming it.
```

> You can see the DBT logs directly on the Airflow UI:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can see the dbt logs directly on the Airflow UI:
```

![](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/Falydoor/blog-usa/blog-dbt-airflow/images/2022/04/dbt-airflow-logs.png)

# Conclusion

> Creating a project that uses DBT and Airflow was relatively easy using the available AWS services. CDK really lets you focus on the architecture design instead of wasting time on trivial things like configurations, permissions and networking.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Creating a project that uses dbt and Airflow was relatively easy using the available AWS services. CDK allows you to focus on the architecture design instead of wasting time on trivial things like configurations, permissions, and networking.
```

> With the DBT Operator, it is very easy to run your DBT models in your Airflow data pipelines without having to start an ECS Task for example. And your DBT project can be directly updated on Airflow using the S3 bucket. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
With the dbt Operator, it is rather easy to run your dbt models in your Airflow data pipelines without having to start an ECS task, for example. And your dbt project can be directly updated on Airflow using the S3 bucket. 
```

> Need help using the latest authentication technology? Or do you need help modernizing your legacy systems to use these new tools? Ippon can help! Send us a line at [contact@ippon.tech](mailto:contact@ippon.tech).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Need help using the latest authentication technology? Or perhaps you are looking to modernize your legacy systems using these newer tools? Ippon can help! Send us a line at [contact@ippon.tech](mailto:contact@ippon.tech).
```
